conference call from the senior
management we have with us today Mr.
Sanjie Mantri MD and CEO of the company
Mr. Gopal Balachandran CFO
Mr. Anand Singhi chief retail and
government Mr. Girishna
chief technology and health underwriting
and claims Mr. Sep Goradia, Chief
Corporate Solutions International and
Bank assurance and Mr. Goro Verura,
Chief Reinsurance, Underwriting and
Claims for Property and Casualty.
Please note that any statements,
comments are made in today's call that
may look like forward-looking statements
are based on the information presently
available to the management and do not
constitute an indication of any future
performance as future involved risks and
uncertainties which could cause results
to differ materially from the current
views being expressed. As a reminder,
all participant lines will be in the
listenon mode and there will be an
opportunity for you to ask questions
after the presentation concludes. Should
you need assistance during the
conference call, please signal an
operator by pressing star and then zero
on your touchstone phone.
I now hand the conference over to Mr.
Sanjie Mantri, MD and CEO, ICIA Lombard
General Insurance Limited. Thank you and
over to you sir.
Good evening to each one of you. Thank
you for joining the earnings conference
call for ICA Lombard for quarter 3 and 9
months financial year 2026.
At the outset, let me wish you all a
very happy new year and best of health
and happiness.
I would like to give you a brief
overview of the recent economic industry
trends which have shaped the operating
environment over the past few months.
Following that, our CFO Mr. Gopal Balach
Chandan will take you through the
company's financial performance for the
recently concluded quarter and 9 months.
The Indian economy recorded a GDP growth
of 8.2% in quarter 2 up from 7.8 in the
preceding quarter. The expansion was
underpinned by sustained government
capital expenditure coupled with an
increase in private capex rup service
activi services activity and a rebound
in private consumption. Consumption was
further supported by easing inflation
and the GST rationalization implemented
in late September 2025.
Coming to Q3 financial year 2026, the
index of industrial production, IIP data
indicates positivity supported by
manufacturing growth, continued
infrastructure development, and a
turnaround in consumer good segment.
eBay bill generation and toll
collections during the same period
recorded growth of 13% and 17% YI
reflecting strong underlying economic
activity. We believe that these high
frequency indicators should auger well
for a commercial line of segmented
by GST rationalization the automo sector
has seen a significant uptick in sales.
According to retail sales data based on
WAN registration, the auto industry
recorded a growth of 19.5% for quarter 3
2026 resulting in a total of 9.4 million
vehicles sold.
Within this, private car has seen a
growth of 19.3% translating to 1.3
million vehicles. The two-heer segment
grew by 19.2%
with the 7 million vehicles whereas
commercial vehicles grew by 22.2%.
with 1.1 million vehicle being sold.
Interestingly, the overall growth in the
vehicle sales is the highest in last 12
quarters.
This growth is more broad-based as tier
three cities and beyond have
demonstrated faster growth in both
private car and two-heer segments. This
is also coraborated by strong growth of
28.8% in tractor sales for the quarter.
Overall, the acceleration in new vehicle
sales for the quarter has also led to a
7.7% growth for calendar year 2025 with
a 28.1 million units being sold.
The landmark decision of exemption of
GST on retail health insurance has
significantly improved affordability and
increased awareness.
The industry has passed on the complete
benefit of GST exemptions to the end
consumers.
This has led to an increase in policy
uptake as more customers are seeing
health seeking healthcare protection.
Here too, the growth in retail health
appears to be broad-based across markets
and it's supported by a surge in
firsttime buyers especially for tier 2
and tier three cities which is a
positive for this sector.
On the regulatory front, the government
of India took a significant step during
the quarter by introducing
forward-looking reforms in the insurance
laws with the passage of Sapka Vimma
Saki Asha amendment of insurance laws
bill 2025.
While most of these amendments will have
far-reaching effects on the insurance
sector over time, a few important
changes pertaining to the insurance act
are as follows. Foreign investment is in
an Indian insurance company has enhanced
from 74% to 100% thereby supporting
capital inflows enabling provisions in
the amendment act to facilitate business
other than traditional insurance
underwriting and distribution thereby
allowing insurers to offer holistic risk
management services.
Simplification of provisions relating to
investments of assets.
We are excited about these changes and
we do believe that this should be
structurally positive and would
accelerate the growth and development of
the insurance sector. This will also
facilitate ease of doing business and
provide better protection and risk
management solutions to the policy
holders.
In another significant reform in
November 2025, the government of India
formally made effective four new central
labor codes including the code on social
security 2020. Consequent to this,
benefits like graduity, leave and km
etc. paid on basic salary are now
required to be paid bases the new
broader definition of wage.
We believe this changes should translate
into a more resilient workforce and
strengthen employee security over time.
This change has a one-time impact on the
financials which will be covered by
Gopal in his section.
Let me now dwell upon the industry
performance for the period ended 31st
December 2025.
The general insurance industry reported
a GDPI growth of 8.7% for 9 months 2026.
Excluding crop and mass cell segment,
the GDPI growth at 13.3 growth stood at
13.3% for the period 9 month 2026.
Speaking on specific segments within the
industry, commercial segment recorded a
healthy growth of 14.8 8% for 9 month
2026 and 16.3% for quarter 3 2026.
This growth led by strong momentum in
the fire line which grew at 20.1% for 9
month 2026.
As mentioned above, this is driven by an
increase in capex particularly in areas
such as roads, railways and renewable
energy.
The motor segment grew at 8.9% in 9
months 2026.
compared to 7.6% in H1 2026.
For quarter 3 financial year 2026, the
growth stood at 10.9% supported by
festive season demand and the positive
impact of GST rationalization. Health
segment grew at 14.2%
for 9 months 2026 with a strong momentum
of 27.6% 6% growth in quarter 3 of 2026
led by retail health which grew at 33.6%
and group health growth of 23.1%
underscoring strong demand across the
segment.
On the other hand, industry combined
ratio worsened from 113.3%
in H1 of 2025 to 119.2% 2% in H1 of 2026
indicating continued underwriting
pressure. During the same period, IC
share core moved from 103.2%
in financial year 2025 to 104.0%
in H1 of 2026, reinforcing a superior
financial performance through discipline
underwriting.
The motor line of business remains a key
area of stress with the industry core
increasing from 124.8% 8% in H1 of 2025
to 128.5%
in H1 of 2026.
IC alumba demonstrated better portfolio
management in motor insurance with the
combined ratio improving from 108 to
106.9%
during the same period.
I will now proceed to present our
company's performance across key
business segments.
For 9 month 2026, gross domestic premium
income of the company grew by 3.6%
compared to industry growth of 8.7% for
the same period.
Within this for quarter 3 2026 the
company reported a premium growth of
13.3% compared to industry growth of
11.5%
thereby improving its market share from
8.1% for quarter 3 2025 to 8.3% for
quarter 3 2026
for December 2025 in particular the
company's growth in GDPI was 16.1% in
comparison to the industry growth of
14.4% 4%.
Excluding cross crop and math health,
the company recorded a growth of 7.5%
during 9 month financial year 2026.
Again the industry growth of 13.3%.
Within this for quarter 3 2025 the
company record a growth of 16.4%
as again the industry growth of 20.1%.
In the commercial line segment, our
growth stood at 7.4%
and 6.8% for quarter 3 2026 and 9 month
respectively. While the industry grew by
16.3% for quarter 3 2026 and 14.8% for 9
month 2026.
We continue to be focused on delivering
profitable growth through disciplined
underwriting, pool and risk selection
and portfolio diversification resulting
in the growth of fire segment by 18.8%
in quarter 3 2026 driven by 27.4% growth
in theme segment.
Further, the company delivered a 19.3%
growth in fire compared to 15.8 industry
growth for the month of December 2025.
In the engineering segment, our growth
stood at 15.2% and 13.3% for quarter 3
2026 and 9 month 2026 respectively.
While the industry during the same
period grew by 11.5% and 12.9%
respectively. This led to we attaining
leadership position in engineering
segment for the 9 month 2026.
On the other side, for 9 months 2026,
the company's growth for marine cargo
and liability segment was not in line
with the industry growth announc on on
account of portfolio rationalization.
However, it continued to maintain a
leadership position in these lines.
In motor segment for 9 months 2026, the
company record a growth of 5% whereas
the industry view by 8.9%.
While I while our growth in H1 of 2026
was only 2.2% a rebound was observed in
Q3 2026 driven by an underlying buoyancy
in new motor vehicle sales.
Consequently, the motor segment grew by
9.3% in Q3 2026 supported by a strong
growth of 16.1% in December 2025.
Despite heightened competitive intensity
in the recent quarters, we remain
focused on profitable growth driven by
continuous expansion across distribution
channels and a more granular portfolio
segmentation.
Importantly, the company continues to
maintain it leadership position in the
motor segment with a market share of
10.7% for 9 months 2026.
The company's portfolio motor portfolio
mix of private car, two-wheer and
commercial vehicle stood at 53.6,
25.8%
and 20.6% respectively for 9 month
financial year 2026.
In the health segment, the company grew
by 42% and a 13.8% for quarter 3 2026
and for 9 month 2026 respectively as
against the industry growth of 27.6 6%
and 14.2% for quarter 3 financial year
2026 and 9 month 2026 respectively.
Our health business delivered a robust
growth of 85.8%
in quarter 3 2026 and 44.8%
in 9 month 2026 significantly
outperforming the industry growth of
33.6% 6% in quarter 3 and 16.5% for 9
month 2026.
Our growth was fueled by new to industry
customer growth of 1.7x for quarter 3
2026 and 1.4 times for 9 month 2026.
Thus, our market share increases to 4%
in 9 month compared to 3.2% for the same
period in the previous year. And for
quarter 3 2026, our market share has
increased to 4.5%
from 3.2% for the same period in
previous year. The strong performance
has also been driven by sustained
investment in strengthening our retail
distribution capabilities across
channels.
The group health segment registered a
growth of 26.6%
and 5.9% for quarter 3 2026 and 9 month
2026 respectively. While the industry
grew by 23.1% for quarter 3 2026 and
12.6% for 9 months 2026.
I would like to apprise you of certain
strategic initiatives that continue to
drive operational excellence and
customer sensitivity
across the organization.
The one call center initiative continues
to deliver strong momentum in the
company's transition towards a digital
first do it yourself servicing model. In
December over 60% of the total service
engagements were managed digitally as
against 38% only for April 2025. This
was possible due to our inter AI
interventions through various bots which
has helped customers adopting DIY
service modes.
This has led to improved turn on times,
service consistency and increased
productivity. Our differentiated service
desk initiatives which we can which we
had spoken about in a previous call have
resulted in increase of our call center
NPS to 73 in Q3 of 2026 from 60 in Q1 of
financial year 2026.
Building on a one aisle, one digital
framework, we continue to take positive
strides toward offering a seamless and
omni channel experience across our
website and the ILC care platform. As
you might recall, the ILCare app was
initially launched to provide a
continuum of care for our health
insurance customers. Over time, the app
has continuously evolved with new
functionaries and features, making it a
comprehensive one-stop solution for
service and sales across multiple retail
product lines.
The app has now crossed 19.7 million
downloads as of December 31st, 2025,
reflecting growing customer engagement
and dig digital adoption. The customer
registered the the company registered a
GWP of 3.54 billion for 9 month 2026
from the take care app as against 1.45
billion for the same period last year.
Take care has also made significant
progress in addressing key customer
service requirements and delivering a
seamless insurance experience. Just to
highlight for Trip Secure Plus, our
premier travel insurance product,
customers can now independently manage
claims, policy cancellations,
extensions, and modifications through
the app. These enhancements have enabled
93%
of services, service requests to be
processed on DIY basis without the need
for manual intervention,
leading to a corresponding reduction in
support call volumes. Notably 79% of
premium intimation for trip secure plus
in December 2025 were also initiated
through take care app as compared to 22%
in July 2025.
In order to continually enhance our
efficiency levels in motor claims, we
have expanded our cashless garage
network from 13,600 plus garages in
quarter 3 2025 to 15,000 garages in
quarter 3 2026.
75.2%
of our non claims for quarter 3 2026
were serviced at PPN up from 73.6 in
quarter 3 2025 leading to a enhanced
customer experience.
In the retail segment 99.6% of our total
claims were paid within 30 days and for
motor insurance own damage segment 96.8%
of our claims were paid within 30 days
for the period ended 9 month 2026.
As a result, our NPS for H1 2026 for
health claims stood at 70 and for motor
claims student 69 reinforcing our
position as a customer centric
organization.
In conclusion, the domestic macro
environment remains supportive with
broad-based consumption showing healthy
momentum. We remain focused on building
a sustainable long-term franchise
anchored in the strength of our
technology processes and service
architecture. Through our one team
initiative, we continue to sharpen
execution, drive consistency, and
deliver customer outcomes at scale. We
are well positioned to convert a more
supportive demand environment into a
steady highquality growth while
maintaining discipline in underwriting,
service delivery, and operating
efficiency. I will now request Gopal to
take you through the financial numbers
for the period 9 month 2026.
>> Uh thanks Njie and uh good evening to
each one of you. I will now give you a
brief overview of the financial
performance of the recently concluded
quarter and 9 months. We have uploaded
the results presentation on our website.
You all can access it as we walk you
through the performance numbers. Uh with
effect from October 1, 2024, long-term
products are accounted on a 1 byN basis
as mandated by a regulator. Please refer
to the investor presentation on slide 16
for a much more detailed information on
comparison of financials on N and 1 byN
basis. Uh now let me update on GDPI
numbers. Please note these numbers are
on 1 byN basis. The GDP of the company
was at uh 213.72 billion rupees in 9
months current year as against rupees
206.23 billion in 9 months FI25. A
growth of 3.6% 6% as against the
industry growth of 8.7%.
GDP of the company was at 70 billion
70.41 billion in Q3 FI26 as against
rupees 62.14 billion in Q3 FI25 a growth
of 13.3% as against the industry growth
of 11.5%.
Resulting in our market share to grow
from 8.1% in quarter 3 last year to 8.3%
in quarter 3 of the current year. On the
retail side of the business, GDP of the
motor segment was at rupes 33.99 billion
in Q3 FI26 as against rupes 31.09
billion in Q3 FI25
registering a growth of 9.3%.
The advanced premium for motor segment
was at 41.26 billion rupees as at
December 31 2025 as against rupes 39.13
billion as at September 30, 2025. GDP of
the health segment was at rupes 20.44 44
in Q3 this year as against rupees 14.53
billion in Q3 FI25
registering a growth of 40.6%.
Within this our retail health segment
registered a robust growth of 85.8%.
During the same period GDP of our
commercial line was at rupes 15.72
billion in Q3 FI26 as against rupes
14.63 billion in Q3 FI25
registering a growth of 7.4%. Our agent
which includes the point of sale
distribution count was 1 lak 50,458
as at December 31 2025 up from 147408
as at September 30 2025. Our combined
ratio on 1 by n basis was 104.2%
in 9 months current year as against
102.9%
in 9 months last year. On an end basis
our combined ratio was 103.1% in the
current year as against 102.8% in 9
months last year
combined ratio on again 1 byn for this
quarter 3 current year was 104.5%.
as against 102.7%
in Q3 last year again on an end basis
for this year quarter 3 combined ratio
was 103.1
as against 102.3 in Q3 FI25
we have been talking about the impact of
CAT losses if one was to exclude the
impact of CAT losses of rupees 84
billion in 9 months current year and 94
billion in 9 months of last year the
combined ratio on a 1 byN basis was 103
3.7% and 102.3% respectively. The same
numbers on an N basis was 102.6% and
102.2% respectively.
Uh now coming to the quarter excluding
the impact of CAT losses of rupees.11
billion in Q3 current year. The combined
ratio on 1 byN was 104.3
and the same numbers on an N basis was
103%.
There were no CAT losses in Q3 FI25s and
as mentioned by Sanjay in his opening
remarks excluding the impact of wage
codes of rupees.55
billion our combined ratio on a 1 byN
basis for 9 months current year and
quarter 3 current year was 103.9%
and 103.5%
respectively. On a n basis our combined
ratio excluding the wage codes wage code
impact was 102.8. 8% and 102.2% for 9
months and Q3 respectively. Our
investment assets during the quarter
rose to rupes 582.96 billion as at
December 31, 2025 up from rupes 562
billion as at September 30, 2025. Our
investment leverage net of borrowing was
3.6 times at December 31, 2025 as
against 3.57 at September 30, 2025.
Investment income was at rupes 37.57
billion in 9 months current year as
against rupes 33.73 billion in 9 months
last year. On a quarterly basis
investment income was at rupees 12.19
billion in Q3 current year as against
rups 11.21 billion in Q3 last year. Our
capital gains net of environmental
investment assets stood at rupes 9.33
billion in 9 months current year as
against rupes 7.96 billion in 9 months
last year. Capital gains stood at rupees
3.17 billion in quarter 3 current year
as compared to rupees 2.76 billion in Q3
last year. On a 1 byN basis, our PBT
grew by 10.8% at rupees 29.41 billion in
9 months current year as against rupees
26.53 billion in 9 months last year on
an again for the quarter on a one by
basis PBT grew by 9.4%
for the current quarter as against
rupees 9.6 6 billion in Q3 last year.
Consequently, on a 1 byN basis, PAT grew
by 11.3%
at rupees 22.225 billion in 9 months
current year as against rupes 19.99
billion in 9 last year. The same numbers
on an end basis for profit after tax
grew by 13.8% at rupes 22.22 billion in
9 months current year as against rupes
19.53 billion in 9 months last year. On
a oneby basis, fat degroup by 9.1% at
6.59 billion in Q3 current year from
7.24 billion in Q3 last year. Again
coming back to N basis pack remained
flattish at 6.8 billion in Q3 current
year from 6.79 billion in Q3 last last
year. Excluding the impact of wage code
uh on a 1 byN basis PAT was rupes 22.67
67 billion in 9 months current year and
rupees 7 billion in Q3 current year
registering a growth of 13.4% and a D
growth of 3.3% respectively. The same
numbers on an end basis that was rupees
22.64 billion for 9 months current year
and rupes 7.21 billion in Q3 of this
quarter registering a growth of 15.9%
and 6.3% respectively.
Coming to ROE on a 1 byN basis it was
19.5% in 9 months as against 20.8% in 9
months last year. ROE for the quarter 3
current year was 16.5% as against 21.5%
in Q3 FI25 excluding the wage code
impact on a 1 byN basis ROE was 19.8%
and 17.5% in 9 months and Q3 of the
current year respectively. Tolyance
ratio was at 2.69 69 times at December
31, 2025 as against 2.73 times at
September 30, 2025 continued to be
higher than the minimum regulatory
requirement of 1.5 times. As I conclude,
I would like to state that uh we are all
aligned with our ethos of driving
profitable growth, consistent and
sustainable value creation for all our
stakeholders while ensuring that the
interests of the policy holders are in
the forefront at all times. I'd like to
thank you all for attending this
earnings call and we will now be happy
to take any questions that you may have.
Thank you.
>> Thank you very much. We will now begin
with the question and answer session.
Anyone who wishes to ask a question may
press star and then one on their
touchstone phone.
If you wish to remove yourself from the
question queue, you may press star and
two. Participants are requested to use
handsets while asking a question.
Ladies and gentlemen, we will wait for a
moment while the question queue
assembles.
>> Our first question comes from the line
of Suprain Duta from Jeff. Please go
ahead.
>> Hi. Um, thanks for the opportunity. My
first question is on the labor codes.
Um, you know, we understand that you
know there is a 50 cr impact from you
know the labor code changes. Just wanted
to understand what proportion of this is
recurring versus what proportion of this
was one time. You know that was the
first question. Secondly, you know,
coming to growth now, you know, despite
the GST tailwinds, um, you know, the
growth even on the motor side, if I see
has been, you know, slower than what the
industry has, uh, witnessed and I do
understand that, you know, competition
has been elevated. But you know the
regulator at the regulatory level has
taken multiple steps you know be it
extens of management guidelines or you
know discussions with industry you know
to reduce the competitive intensity or
bring in some bit of rationality yet we
are you know not able to see that
happening. So from here you know if I'm
taking a 2 to three years view what will
you know drive growth in the motor
segment for a player like you which
already has 10 11% market share you know
that's you know if you could throw some
light on that you know that would be
very helpful and lastly on the water TP
loss ratio uh I do understand last time
there was a TP
uh but uh you know this time it seems to
be a more normalized loss ratio um could
be assumed that you know the reserve
releases would hold and you know there
is no further release that that would
come in the fourth quarter or you know
could there be further releases that
would come in the fourth quarter you
know if you could throw some light on
the reserve release but that would also
be helpful. Thank you.
>> Thanks thanks thanks Ukraine for those
questions. uh on the first one uh so far
as the labor code is concerned obviously
uh uh uh the impact of 55 crores uh in
that sense is one time because it's
primarily the liability resulting from
an actual valuation uh for the past
service uh cost uh in so far as the uh
wages is concerned. Having said that,
obviously this code is also evolving. Uh
so hence to that extent we will have to
see if there are any more incremental
guidelines or rules that are that come
into existence. But at this point of
time this is whatever has been released
thus far. This impact of 55 crores is uh
what is the past service uh cost uh
which is more which is a complete impact
that we have taken in the financials of
quarter 3 and 9 months. And if you'd
have seen also the disclosure that we
have made uh there is an element of
roughly about 17 crores. This is the
amount of unamotized cost uh which will
kind of get uh amotized over the next 3
years and in line with again the
acturial report. Uh those are the two
numbers in so far as uh the impact of
wage code is concerned 65 crores is more
onetime impact in the financials. 17
crores of amotized cost is something
that will get amotized over the next uh
3 years. So that's in response to the
first one. On the response to the third
question, motor third party loss ratios.
Um I think I will keep uh keep
reiterating this uh what we have told
the market is um overall motor loss
ratio range that we have spoken is
between 65 to 67%. And if you look at uh
the 9month numbers and that is something
that we keep urging that you should keep
looking at year-to- date numbers than
more quarterly outcomes. The nine bulb
numbers for the current year motor
overall stands at about 66.3%. This is
both own damage and third party put
together. So it's kind of pretty much
playing out in line with the range that
one has spoken about and hence to that
extent uh uh we are quite happy with the
way how things have progressed. To your
point on any uh impact of reserving etc
etc. uh again we will keep uh stressing
on the fact that there has been no
change in any of our actual assumptions
and therefore to that extent it is not
that we have done anything specific
whether it was in the context of last
year or even for the matter of fact when
you look at the numbers from the current
year perspective um so that's in
response to the uh third one and on the
second one uh I will maybe Sanjiv yeah I
will just uh so on the motor part uh
clearly first up we are extremely
excited with the positive environment
ment that has got created as I was
giving the briefing the quarter three
numbers the growth in number of vehicles
across private car two-heer as well as
CV which was which has been more than
19% the highest in last 12 quarters is a
very very good sign uh this increase in
number has also come with the GST
rationalization which made the vehicles
cheaper and with that coming through we
had to also realign what is required and
we also spoke about in terms of how the
combine for the market has moved in
motor from 124 which was hard enough to
128. So the realignment was a very key
piece which is what we as an
organization has done. Uh consequent to
this what we are seeing is the growth of
December in particular where we have
exceeded the market expectations. We
remain very positively driven overall as
to what motor holds for us. We've closed
the year with a 10.7% market share
probably a loss of4
or thereabouts as to what we had 9
months but as we close the positivity
with which we expect even Q4 numbers to
build up on the new sales would drive
growth for us because that is the
combination which we are probably best
at. Uh overall from an environment
standpoints we do see consumption
playing a big role and in that upward
mobility of a two-heer customer seeking
private car and thereabout also is
becoming very clear also one more point
which does for us is we've been a
distribution company and the growth is
broad-based which is where they see that
we are ph three and about the market
growth also is coming it again is a big
positive for us and it will help us to
drive what we want to drive as an
agenda. So we are overall on motor uh
very positively placed but the
realignment in wake of what the
intensity is seen is something which is
warranted and we've always maintained
that we'll never shy away from taking
those calls but the range mount 10.7%
market where we stand we are pretty much
involved as a number one player as a
topmost player we're also very aware of
the responsibility that we carry in the
motor segment in particular
Yeah,
>> that's very helpful. Thank you. Thank
you.
>> Thank you.
>> Your next question comes from the line
of Sankit Koda from Aendas Park. Please
go ahead.
>> Uh yeah, thank you for the opportunity.
Uh uh you see the retail health growth
85 or 86%age in the third quarter. Um
honestly it has the unwinding portion of
last year too. So if if I do end to end
comparison uh which which is more like
to like so so so the uh can you just
spell out the growth how how the retail
health has panned out uh if you look on
end to end basis
we are not separately calling that out
so honestly uh to that extent I think
what we would say is that uh what we are
very excited is what I think Sanjiv
responded even on motor I think the
underlying demand on ground is kind of
pretty much playing out consequent to
some of the rationalizations that have
happened in the context of uh GSTs uh
that we have kind of talked about even
in the last quarter and u and hence to
that extent uh one would say that the
growth is very very uh uh exciting and
hence to that extent while it does have
an impact uh but um honestly our sense
is uh I think broadly even if I were to
kind of uh give a number even on an end
basis I think that growth would be more
or less around the same range of between
80 to 85%. So hence it doesn't kind of
change much uh which is what we had said
what we very very excited is more the
underlying impact momentum than looking
at numbers whether on an end basis or a
one by end basis
>> yeah and also you know we talking about
if you look at the numbers we've gone on
80% plus in all three months October
November and December uh so very clearly
uh the need for differentiating that and
talking as it is it's not an easy
commentary we talking one by I for you
to listen on audio itself is a
challenge. I can tell you probably you
can make more sense when you have the
script in hand. Uh but this growth and
what we have been doing over sustained
quarter also is reflected in the market
share which has increased to 4.5% in Q3.
Uh which is which clearly speaks about
the underlying momentum that uh the team
has been able to build. Uh and if your
question is do you see this momentum
probably playing out even in quarter 4?
My answer would be every reason to
believe and it's dri and it's again
driven by a very good demand across
markets. So there is a play and we have
a product and we have a team which is
capable of driving this uh transition.
If you ask the beginning of the year did
we expect a uh 4 and a half% of market
share my answer would have been probably
it would have been a shade lower than
that. So there is tailwind which is also
helping us look uh better than what we
could have been but would we have been
far would have been 4%. So it's it's
pretty much there and we are well set.
So we at the right place at the right
time uh as far as health is concerned.
>> Uh this this I mean honestly this growth
is little extraordinary even if I look
at from the industry um standard point
of view. Is it any particular channel or
or you which were not present in a
particular channel now exploring the
channel has contributed to the growth
>> so that that that I can explain you that
I can that's what your question was so
see the product elevate was last year
July okay so we had started doing well
in that and that renewal base also comes
and gets added to the book so
mathematically plus supported by the
tailwinds there's an answer to that part
I mean I'm definitely not saying that
85% of the growth that will continue for
quarters and quarters. So mathematically
speaking the retention of a product and
the quality product is there then you
get good customers and the retention
also is very high and so there is that
part which is helping us to drive this
kind of a growth.
>> Understood. But but any any new channel
which contributed like like like maybe
you were not present in one
of course our agency channel has opened
up significantly and we able to attract
lot more channels. So agency is uh
driving this growth but at the same time
even on website so we've been pretty uh
across channels uh but the contribution
percentage perk of what was there would
not have gone through a significant
change if you look at the distribution
pattern so we are seeing this growth
across uh channels uh uh something
the reason I'm asking is that
>> and even and even bank for that matter
>> understood understood the reason I'm
asking this question is that Is our
payout structure to the distributor is
more skewed on n basis rather than one
by n basis and given the
>> no no no no we have absolute clarity
that even if it's long-term uh what we
will do is what comes with one by as a
as a as a team for us we continue to
operate strictly on those guidelines.
>> Okay. Understood. So so basically
commission payouts are also on online
basis.
>> Sorry to interrupt.
>> Yeah. Yeah. On that. Yes.
>> Okay. Understood. Understood. Thanks.
>> Yeah. Yeah. So it would be
differentiated to that extent that one
first year would be something and then
second and third year that obviously is
the case but it is distributed this.
>> Understood. Understood. If if I squeeze
in one more sorry
>> sorry to interrupt Sanka may request to
return to the queue for followup
question. There are several other
participants waiting.
>> Yes sir.
>> Thank you so much. Our next question
comes from the line of P Jane from
Motil. Please go ahead.
>> Uh yeah hi everyone. Uh just a couple of
questions.
>> Um just a couple of questions. Firstly
on the motor side uh SI we've seen a
tremendous growth in volumes and what
I've understood is there is
premiumization trends as well. Uh in
spite of that uh the uh premium growth
of the industry has uh has a decent gap
between the volume growth of the
industry as well as the uh the premium
growth what we have seen right. Uh so in
that sense what is causing that
disparity and have you seen any further
pricing aggression uh in Q3 with respect
to uh you know motor OD premiums given
that uh you know it was anticipated that
the growth would be there and uh the
competition intensities increase that my
first question and second question is in
terms of retail health could you give us
some uh qualitative or some numbers as
around uh as to what is the kind of
growth that is driving the the new
customers that are coming uh what are
they coming at you know what kind of
some assures they are coming and also
the existing customers are they scaling
up the summer assured and maintaining
the premium levels or what's the kind of
uh trajectory that we are seeing there
>> yeah okay so on the motor side P uh
clearly if you see that the growth has
been uh broadband
uh and we've seen small cars these small
hatchback cars being sold far higher uh
than any other car. So the the volume
growth may not necessarily translate
into a equivalent uh growth in premium
for the industry and also what has to be
noted is that this growth also is fueled
by the rationalization which happened
from 28 to 18%. Which itself led to an
impact on the yield per vehicle going
down. So it's the combined thing and
that is where the realignment also had
to be done by us as a team to ensure
that what we pick up
overall uh from the market uh with
respect to our own motor portfolio and
also we spoke about how the H1 uh is uh
you know seeing the combined ratio
getting that's to answer the competitive
intensity that you're speaking about the
motor combined in 124 and.5 and
thereabouts had very little room to go
further down. It moves down to 128 and
if that is the kind of you know
development that comes in there is no
reason to believe that the competition
intensity has gone down and at the same
time you spoke about specific players
coming and coming out. Frankly speaking
our journey is very secular. you know we
we've got a decent understanding and we
back ourselves in terms of what we are
picking up and what we do want to do in
this motor segment in particular uh we
are uh and we always maintain that we
are very comfortable working away what
is not making basic sense on the roe
level for motor as a book so we do
understand we willing to play the uh you
know game if there's an roe that comes
through even if it's on an elevated
combine but not in a in a in a random
manner where we just keep acquiring
because there's an opportunity
available. So, so that kind of a
discipline is what drives us and that's
where when the industry has moved from
124 to 128 our combined actually
improved by some a percentage and some
few more basis points in that H1 period
also. So it's it's to be taken in
collaboration while maintaining market
leadership. So uh uh further pricing
aggression very little room but we
maintained that over last couple of
quarter but we are very unsafe because
our journey of how we can slice and dice
and do what makes sense what makes sense
for us uh we we would back ourselves and
we are very confident that we'll be able
to deliver what is warranted for us as a
company
on uh is that p I hope this answers what
you're seeking on motor and on there.
>> I know TPI. I know TPI is another part
which I must add
>> uh to say which has made the uh yield
look what it is. We have been always
expecting it but it's not come through
as yet.
>> Okay. Just one thing on the motor before
you kind of answer the retail health. Uh
the hatchbacks and the smaller cars. Uh
would you say that G given a lot of them
could be the first time buyers uh
structurally and given you have a large
history of long history of data on the
same kind of vehicles being sold and
first-time buyers would you say that the
loss ratios or could be higher on this
segment going ahead or
>> this of course we can we can discuss in
detail but the the the long answer in
I'll make it short and say the cars have
also started coming with much better
safety features. The road also has
changed. So there is a lot more the
salon systems are getting digitized. The
uh overlay in terms of investigating
what's gone wrong because there are
cameras everywhere across the country.
The surveillance has increased. So
there's lot more pluses. There are a lot
more minuses. I'm not saying it. Uh and
these are all the factors that we are
able to use uh to drive what we want to
drive as a team and that's the USP that
we carry, right? So uh we won't be too
phased by it. uh and if we do see
segments
going out of hand, I think our ability
to take a cause probably ahead of the
market is what uh is the what is what
differentiates us uh as a team. I hope
again I'm able to put across what I'm
saying.
>> Absolutely. And on the retail health,
>> yeah, on the retail health clearly we
have seen far more you know awareness. I
think this GST card besides of course
making it more affordable has been the
biggest marketing
you know to make the individuals and
their families to realize that health
insurance is critical and as a trend to
be very honest we do see some insured
increasing significantly. We see bulk of
our customers in the range of 10 and a
half to 10 lakhs some insured. So which
is a big positive also to just share
with all of you whenever a customer
picks up a higher sum insured their
ability to retain and be with us is much
higher because the quality of the
customer is much better. So yes it's a
big plus for us uh uh as a company.
>> Thank you so much. Wish you all the
best.
>> Thank you Pish. Thank you.
>> Thank you. The next question comes from
the line of Ain Singh from MK Global.
Please go ahead.
Yeah. Hi, good evening. Uh, thanks for
the opportunity. Uh, so couple of
question. The first one is looking at
the impact of 1 by N in terms of a
combined ratios. Is it kind of a fair
assumption that the your multi-year
product has seen a very very strong
growth if you can sort of provide some
color I mean within your retail health
what is the multi-year uh premium share.
So that's one. second uh kind of a you
know that now we are kind of have seen 9
10 months of the year uh so for FI 27 uh
uh if I have missed I don't know uh you
can provide some kind of a uh you know
guidance on growth as well as on
combined and related partly in motor
third party should we expect uh you know
by the time you're queue for some
reserve releases given that I mean you I
mean where your reserving are setting or
kind of a reserve religion in FI 22 to
24 is still pretty minimal. So is it
kind of you know fair to assume that
okay the Q4 should see some motor TP.
>> Yeah. So Ain uh I think I'll go it on
the reverse way. Uh so motor third party
I think obviously uh yeah uh I think as
an industry we all have been kind of
waiting for the price announcement. Uh
so we'll wait and see. by the time we
announce uh results for the next quarter
hopefully we will see where we where we
land. Um so we will keep all of you
updated on that. Uh on the second piece
on uh what is it that we can expect for
the next year I think this is something
that we had spoken even in uh as in last
quarter as in to say that I think given
the strong growth momentum that we see
kind of getting rebound back to us. uh
what we have always maintained is at a
uh at a top line or from a growth
standpoint we have tried to see if we
can be 100 to 200 basis points at a
company level better than the industry
growth numbers. uh this is cutting
across all lines and uh and that is
exactly what possibly you would have
seen uh getting exhibited in quarter 3
uh for us uh in terms of where we our
growth were viz the industry growth and
even more specifically if you would have
seen even for the month of December I
think we have had an outperformance v
the overall industry numbers so
therefore that's something that we would
endeavor even as we head into given the
strong growth momentum that one is
seeing on ground and hence to that
extent that is what we would kind of
pencil in in terms of trying to continue
to gain in the incremental market share
on combined more important than the
combined I think what we have largely
spoken is to try and see if we can
continue to sustain delivering roses in
that in that range of 18 to 20% even if
you would have seen the numbers for the
9 months it's been roughly around 19%
thereabout so hence to that extent uh in
that range of 18 to 20% so that's
something that is something is what we
would look forward again when you look
at uh how we would want to play out even
for the next year uh from an roe
standpoint uh to your first point I
think it is high singledigit number in
terms of the proportion of long-term uh
uh premiums v the total premium that we
under right um but um I think the only
thing that we would keep urging is uh I
think even as as I was reading the
transcript I did realize there are so
many numbers on an end and a one by n
basis across various parameters um so
hence to that extent if you ask us
ideally on a consist this will actually
kind of continue for even maybe for the
next three quarters because While uh
while quarter 3 of this year onwards now
we everything is sort of a one by n but
still there will always be a factor of
the first question that was being asked
in terms of what is the impact of acred
of last year in this quarter and so on
and so forth. So hence to that extent a
far better reflection is to keep looking
at numbers on an end basis and there if
you would have seen our combined for
quarter 3 has actually been better. I
think if you look at quarter three of
last year our combined was roughly about
102.3%.
And this number on an end basis for
quarter three the current year is point
there I just want to interject and make
this point and we accept that also when
when came in as a company uh we don't
want to confuse at any point of time
economic value to accounting you know we
very clear so we have uh uh in all our
conversations with our team and key
personnels who are involved uh we only
discuss on end basis because that is the
true value which will get embedded in
the The what comes because of the uh
accounting part is just an outcome for
us and that is the real value uh you
know value that we can add even our
budgets for that matter of the share are
all taken on end basis uh uh because
that's how portfolio can be picked up in
the right manner and even cash flows can
get generated otherwise the tendency to
make it shorter and shorter would erode
value over long term sorry Yeah.
>> Okay. Thank you.
>> Thank you.
>> Thanks. Thank you.
>> Thank you. Our next question comes from
the line of Nidesh from Invest. Please
go ahead.
Uh thanks for the opportunity. Uh so can
you share the share of new uh in the
motor segment? What is the new and what
is uh old vehicles?
I'm trying to understand whether the
market share trends are more uh the
market share trends how they are shaping
up in both these segments are we have we
lost market share in the new side that
is reflecting into lower growth or or
it's in both both segment our market
share trends are broadly similar
>> so so n just for the benefit of all of
you I'll give you two numbers uh one is
in terms of mix for quarter 3 new is
roughly about 35% renewal is about 65 5
uh and if you see this numbers for 9
months new is about 33 and renewal book
is about 67. So in that sense relatively
for quarter three uh the mix is about 35
and 65 but more important than the mix
if you ask us I think the point that we
have been talking about given the
underlying growth momentum kind play out
with respect to new vehicle sales and
there again in the same order as in I'll
give you Q3 numbers first our new growth
has been 12.4% 4%. Uh and our old growth
has been 7.7%. Translating to an overall
growth in quarter 3 in motors for a set
about 9.3. These same numbers if you
look at it on a 9-month basis the new
growth was has been 2.5%. The renewal
growth has been 6.2 translating an
overall growth of 5%. So this is exactly
the point that we have been talking
about. I think what we are seeing is
clearly an underlying strong growth
momentum coming coming in with respect
to new vehicle sales. Having said that
that does not mean that for us uh
renewals/ retentions are not important.
I think that's equally very very
important. But what we have been able to
leverage is a combination of both the
underlying growth momentum with respect
to new vehicle sales and then of course
the continued focus on improving
retention as well.
>> Yeah absolutely and uh the fact that the
9 month average is uh when we talk about
new is 2.5 and old is 6.2 2 while for
the Q3 uh the number goes the other way
where the new is the growth has been led
by new and as in the past Bopal has been
breaching it all new has its own set of
expenses that comes but a blood and loss
ratio and that consequent to that it
will have its uh impact but will have a
long-term value creation for us as a
company. uh in the past for the quarter
that we done always was driven by old
growth and if you go back to our scripts
that we have said we have said our
growth is driven by old so that's a big
transition it's a big plus overall for
us and we have been able to obviously
garner more new uh in the market uh
which has helped us to get this kind of
a growth
>> sure secondly if you can share the loss
ratio in health uh segment wise
>> yeah I was just waiting for somebody to
But anyway uh so uh on uh on uh group
health uh I'll first give the quarter3
numbers and then the 9 month numbers.
First I'll give you the Q3 and 9 month
numbers of last year. Group health uh
last year was about 97.2
and uh this number for 9 months of last
year was 97.7.
uh the same group health numbers for
quarter 3 this year was 90.7
and 9 month numbers is 93.2
for retail indemnity that's the other
number that generally gets asked for uh
this again quarter 3 last year retail
indity loss ratio was 65%. This number 9
months was 69.1.
For the current year quarter 3, retail
indemnity loss ratios are 63.1.
9 month loss ratio numbers are 67.3. So
again if you look at uh what we have
been telling the market is on corporate
health or group health generally we have
maintained that we are quite comfortable
running at the book with a mid90s that's
being the that's the threshold that we
have spoken about on the corporate
health and that's exactly how it has
played out on a 9month basis and even
retail health I think the range that we
have generally spoken to the market is
to see if you're able to run the book at
a range between 65 to 70%. I think what
we are quite excited with is the way how
the growth in the book has played out
and the fact that we have kind of
largely seen maybe couple of renewal
cycles play through on the new product
that we kind of launched last year. I
think the good news is I think the
experience that you are seeing on ground
I think is kind of pretty much holding
on to the assumptions that we had kind
of pencileled in when we kind of
launched this. So those are the two
numbers uh that I would kind of uh give
give away to others.
>> Sure. And lastly then on the health side
we are showing very strong growth but
from a longerterm perspective how should
we uh uh how do we plan to manage the
issue of uh uh old lives getting
subsidized by the new lives and that
lead to uh loss ratio deteriorating over
a long period of time. uh currently we
are still a young company on the health
side but as the growth matures let's say
five year down the line how what is the
strategy to manage the overall loss
ratio
>> so two three data points uh one is that
the penetration of retail health in the
country overall is 5% okay most of us
end up looking at group health as a
funible thing for retail cover that
awareness is building up and there's a
long play available and it's also linked
to the purchasing power if we believe
that the uh GDP the growth the
purchasing power the income tax curve
the GST all are living this there's a
significant road available where the uh
growth of new to the insurance or new to
protection uh will keep seeing a
significant uh uh traction and also as
loss issue picks up which is very real
and you are absolutely spot on but at
the same time the expense and the
commission of acquisition also goes down
so there is a counterplay that comes in
and uh the the aging book in terms of
how it evolves and develops better
medical solutioning all of that what
comes into play we can talk about that
when we meet again but there is a play
available and that's why we see a future
as we you know as we go about it
and there is of course and just to add
to it there's a good preventive play
that will also become a critical factor
for each one of first in our life. So if
there was a and as a company we would uh
be very actively involved. There's so
much more available and through I'll
take care which has got good traction in
real terms. Uh we do believe that uh we
will play a significant role. Right now
it's all setting the policy and
admission is how we interact but that
also is progressively changing. Uh there
is a good highway available. uh and it's
not that sitting in our room we don't
play out and simulate as to how this
portfol could behave uh 2 years 3 years
5 years down the line these are part of
actual actial modelings and we are well
aware of it
>> sure sir that's it from my side thank
you
>> thank you thank you thank you
>> thank you next question comes from the
line of sarna mukhar gji from BNK
securities please go ahead
>> hi sir thank you for the opport
opportunity. Uh a couple of questions
from my side. First on the uh commission
uh our commission number that has
increased uh sequentially quite
substantially because I just wanted to
understand that um whether this is uh
primarily due to our retail products
increasing in the mix or uh whether you
were seeing even in commercial lines uh
where you source to maybe uh you know
agents or brokers that there has been an
increase in commission. some color on
what you are seeing on the ground and
just because you know it's also fairly
topical that we are hearing about some
regulatory scrutiny on this side. So how
do you see the regulatory landscape
playing out? So that is the first one
and uh secondly on the group employer
employee I mean so as you said uh that
uh the loss ratio numbers uh look fairly
encouraging. So just wanted to
understand that this loss ratio outcome
is this uh more a pricingled outcome or
is this that the claims environment has
become benign which is why we are seeing
this and our growth is this like uh also
a function of the base effect because
last year I think we were uh not growing
this business. So uh is that playing out
or have you become fairly more
constructive on this business than you
were earlier? Yeah, these will be my two
questions.
>> Okay, too many things into two
questions. So, yeah.
>> We'll obviously try and address all of
them. Uh so on the first one, Swarnab, I
think uh again this is something that we
always call out um uh and this is what
even Sanjiv just at the end responded to
one of the one of the uh questions. See
our our business has to be fundamentally
looked at in the context of a loss
experience and cost of acquisition. So
therefore to that action there are
always nuances that play out in terms of
what mix of business that you write. Uh
relatively I I think the earlier
question that was asked in terms of the
mix between new and renewal in terms of
motor and when I kind of gave out the
data points clearly you would have seen
that the proportion of uh new was much
higher particularly when you looked at
the quarter three numbers this will be
what we had seen for the whole of 9
months. and new inherently kind of comes
with uh a high cost of acquisition. Uh
and hence to that extent obviously and
more importantly if you would have seen
generally quarter three is uh is is
typically a period of seasons. So and
more so on retail. So hence any quarter
three you go back you'll always find the
cost of acquisition to be relatively
higher than let's say what you would
have seen for other quarters. So there's
obviously an element of seasonality that
plays out when you look at the
commission numbers on an isolated basis.
But what we would keep saying is to keep
looking at it more on ideally the
overall combined ratio which for us
actually has dropped when you look at
the H1 numbers relative to the industry
adverse uh that has happened but and and
the second number that we keep talking
about is more on the overall expenses of
management. uh so even after considering
the impact of the uh wage code that I
spoke about of roughly about 55 crores
uh as at 9 months I think we are kind of
pretty much there uh in so far as the
limits that are laid down by the
regulatory guidelines. So hence to that
extent that's the way we would kind of
look at uh I think we are very very
conscious of what we kind of source and
very very conscious of what loss
experience and the cost of acquisition
that comes as a part of it. uh to the
second point on the regulatory uh uh uh
uh evolution on this. I think honestly
we we all have to kind of wait and see
how it plays out. I think the good news
is I think from a regulatory standpoint
the regulator has been kind of
instituting the right set of guidelines
for the industry. I think couple of
years back when they kind of introduced
this overall threshold on excellence of
management that was a step in the that
was a step in the very right direction
of making sure that all companies all
cost put together are well within that
threshold of 30%. And if you look at
basis public disclosures uh roughly
there are still maybe almost 21 out of
34 players are maybe possibly met the
norms there are still a lot list list of
companies which are still in exance on
the extens of management. So honestly I
think what we would want to see from a
market standpoint is to make sure that
every player in the market stays within
the limit on expensive management and
then honestly we will wait for any
subsequent changes that comes from a uh
uh regulatory changes but we will be
equally kind of committed to whatever
the guidelines that the regulator lays
down. Um so that's in response to the
first point on both commission increase
and what could happen in terms of
regulatory change. to your second point
on the GHI u yes it's a combination of
both I think again this is something
that we have articulated not only in the
context of GHI in general I think what
we have stayed focused on every line you
should see how we can remain profitable
and the very fact that the loss numbers
that I gave out is a testimony to the
fact that we have been very very careful
and selective in terms of what risk do
we want to underwrite uh equally it's
obviously a combination of uh both the
points that you made it's a combination
of let's say better price in terms of
what we are comfortable underwriting and
two we have our own in-house claims
management team I think they do a
brilliant job in terms of making sure
that once the once a group health
account is underwritten how is it that
we can play a very very important role
in managing the overall loss experience
and at the same time giving delight in
so far as customer experience is
concerned which is again reflective of
the NPS scores that we have kind of
called out uh whether it is motor or
whether it is health uh so that's so
that's how the growth has been reflected
and again we will continue to see that
play out even as we head into quarter
four or even for the matter of fact the
next financial year.
>> Right sir and so just on the first
question I wanted to also uh uh check on
the commercial line side. So is there
any kind of like for where you have a
intermediary source the deal has been
okay commissioning inflation anything
you can follow? So honestly commercial
lines in general I think uh has been uh
if you remember I think what we have to
commercial lines we have generally have
we have our own relationship team which
acts as a direct interface in so far as
working with corporates are concerned
and hence to that extent uh obviously
relatively that cost of sourcing tends
to be very very low but at the same time
what we also write as a part of the
commercial lines is some of risk uh
which is which tends to be relatively
widely distributed and there there will
be an element of cost of uh distribution
but overall the point that I made when
you look at the loss experience plus the
cost of acquisition put together on the
commercial lines book that's a very very
profitable book for us and that's the
way how we look at it again rather than
looking at one element of uh the
business that we source
>> right sir got it that's very helpful
thank you so much sir
>> thank you
>> thanks
we will take the last question from the
line of nishin chawat from kotak Please
go ahead.
>> Yeah. Uh thanks for uh taking my
question. Uh you know uh you have a very
impressive growth in retail health and
uh you know we can see an improvement in
uh you know retail uh loss ratios as
well. But uh you know as as we
understand uh you know typically the
lock ratios in retail products are
significantly lower in the first uh you
know 2 3 years and then they kind of
move up from there on. So I would have
kind of said that you know this this
this delta is because of the portfolio
mix. Is it something that the new
policies that are originated are ported
or they are they are originated under
under uh you know uh different covenants
or uh you know is is is he uh you know
is as a cohort level profitability
stable or improving or deteriorating if
you would give some color on that.
So Nish again I think I'll I'll kind of
maintain the same response that I gave
in to the earlier question which is I
think the loss ratio range on retail
health as a company that we are
comfortable running at is between 65 to
70%. And so that's a number that we will
keep looking for in terms of how we are
able to stay within that. Uh to a large
part of in terms of sourcing I think
honestly what we want to do is in line
with let's say some of the uh some of
the discussions that even the government
has been doing to kind of increase uh
health care or increase healthcare
penetration uh consequent to some of the
reforms that they have done is to kind
of improve penetration at large. So
hence I think where we are kind of
largely expanding our distribution reach
which is what we put out also as a part
of the opening transcript to say that
even on health we are do we do we are
seeing let's say an increase in tire two
tire three cities kind of contributing
and these are as we said new to
insurance uh so hence to that extent I
think so far as we are concerned uh we
would want to kind of uh continue to
expand by acquiring a lot many more new
to insurance uh customers and two and
more importantly the earlier point that
I said in terms of our ability to
continue to retain our own customers is
something that we are very much focused
on. So it will be a combination of those
two is what will continue to drive
growth in the retail book.
>> And n just to add to what gopal is
saying uh uh we've also transformed our
own journey right and we are a
multi-line multi-product company uh for
us whether the c customer comes from the
root of motor or from health uh we are
seeing it from a comprehensive one-stop
solution. we were uh underval in our
offering for a number of years as far as
retail health is concerned and we know
that going in as we move along uh while
we all know that the loss ratios move
upward as we age and that's that's that
the truth which I don't see would change
but at the same time you also know if
you're comprehensively dealing with this
customer the motor loss issue also goes
down I mean just to share with you so
it's a very clear mix and we are very
well placed as a multi-roduct multi-line
client company. So what we seeing is
getting a good customer on board and
then then working with them on a
lifetime profitability. So the maths is
what plays out with is what you see
because at times you will see only
health at times you will see only motor
but what we look at it is in a far more
comprehensive offering and with a 2.9%
market share which was just probably 18
months back for us to be a four four and
a half uh where we stand as we exist
quarter three it is just helping us to
build a very well-rounded practice. I'm
not okay was not wellrounded but health
in particular was always in a space
which was driven by GHI and under this
part we see this as a toggling part and
we see it is a very significant play in
our scheme of thing that's why we got
invested and we we stay positive and
business it's always possible that one
or two lines will have a problem and
covid happened health was all over the
place but motor kind of saved the day
for us so that's the way the portfolio
gets balanced and that's there we end up
talking about what is it that we can
generate as an ROE.
>> Yeah,
>> got it. That's that's very
comprehensive. Just uh squeezing a last
one. Uh I'm not sure if you mentioned
this but uh uh you know in case of
health uh you know there is uh you know
the the input tax credit loss because of
GST exemption. Uh so how are you dealing
with that? Are you sharing it with the
distributors or are you absorbing it? Is
that one of the drivers for higher
ratios? So so so clearly yes we will
have to realign our cost structure and
this is what we have done the benefit in
totality of GST rationalization has got
passed on to the customers uh and uh we
had the benefit of as the volume grows
uh for us it you know in every line of
business motor or health economies of
scale will kick in. We have a large uh
health practice as a company which is in
combined from the employer employee as
well as retail health. So so Definitely
we'll do what is it required toize it
and serve the customer appropriately.
Yes.
>> Are you sharing to the distributor or I
mean
>> yeah of course we have we have the
industry has shared it's not only about
us we all of us on the general insurance
and the retail health have uh and then
the increased volume is not impacting
the income of the distributor per se. So
there is already a counterplay which is
visible uh which can be seen in terms of
the growth. So it's not that it's one
channel which is getting impacted uh
comprehensively we are we are all able
to do better business. So yes it's got
passed on we have also a cost structure
because uh both part is required and
today's technology and the so much which
is going on which we have not spoken but
we can talk about it when we sit
onetoone is helping us also to reduce uh
cost per transaction. uh I don't know
when you see the script which I spoke
about as to how uh we've been able to
use uh you know bots uh uh to get our
digital part of serving DIY serving
significantly up with the uh you know
operator handling it which is driven by
a lot more inconsistency and uh you know
uh time consumption which can happen. So
there is so much that is happening. So
the cost part will go down. So we will
be able to manage it on this front very
easily.
>> Perfect. That's that's that's very very
reassuring. Uh thank you very much and
all the best.
>> Thank you. Thank you and all the best.
Thank you. Okay. Great. Uh thank you so
much for joining in and uh
Okay.
>> Thank you very much.
>> Thank you. Thank you and have a great
2026. Thank you so much.
>> Thank you. Thank you on behalf of ICIC
Lombard General Insurance Company
Limited. That concludes this conference.
Thank you all for joining us and you may
now disconnect your alliance.
>> Thank you so much. Thanks.